So at this point now we should know what template files are and  also template tags.
And we mentioned that we will discuss page templates later in the course.
So let's now discuss template hierarchy.
So we've seen some kind of template files like the header and the footer that will be used throughout the whole website.
And we mentioned that this kind of template files are called template partials. Sometimes template files are
only loaded under certain conditions. So depending on the URL or the request that you are requesting
WordPress will determine what template to use. And that will be according to a specific hierarchy that
WordPress uses in order to decide what template to load.
So to make this clearer.
Let's take a look at an example.
So let's say we are requesting this page. Now WordPress will know that this is a category page. So it will
look in your theme and try to find a template that is responsible for displaying a category archive.
So first it will look for a file called category-unicorns.php and this will be a very specific template.
It will does display the posts that have the category unicorn.
And if this template is not found it will search for category-id.
So assuming the unicorns category has an id of 4, it will look for category-4.
And then if that's not found, it will search for a template called category.php. And this
template will be responsible for displaying any category, not just a specific one.
And if that's not found it will search for an even more generic file archive.php.
archive.php
is responsible for displaying any archive,
not only the category.
Also the tags and the time archives and so on.
So it's more generic then category.php.
And if that's not found it will fall back to index.php.
So remember when we mentioned that index.php  is the only required template for your theme.
That's the reason why. Any request that WordPress will not find a template for it will always fall back
to index.php.
That's why it should always be there.
So this diagram summarizes the template hierarchy and file names for WordPress.
So whenever you want to know a file name for a certain page you want to display or you want to know
template has a higher priority in the hierarchy,
you could always refer to this diagram. And I will put a link to it in the lecture links.
But let's now try to use this diagram for the example we've seen in the last slide.
So we wanted to display a category page.
So it's an archive page and it's a category archive.
So WordPress will search for category-slug as we saw and then category-id and then category.php
and then archive and then index.
And as you can see index is default back fall any unfound template.
So I think that's it for template file for now.
We will use them a lot throughout this course and things will be more clear.
So let's move on now to the next lecture.